CPRE 431 
M03 HW 
Assignments will be submitted in PDF format via Canvas.  
Please submit your homework online through Canvas. Late homework will not be accepted.  
Please ensure that you support all your answers with the correct screenshots showing your solutions. 
 
1. In this “lab” problem, you will be working on a Linux Server Virtual Machine (VM). An image of 
this VM is available on Canvas (attached with the HW). The VM is having an administrator and 5 
users, as shown in the figure below. You don’t have access to any of the users of the Server, to be 
able to access the Server, you will need to perform password cracking! You were given a line of 
password hash from (/etc/shadow) for the administrator (admin1) of the Server (attached with 
the HW). 
a. Determine the used hash type of the password. 
$6$ represents SHA-512 hash was used for all users 
b. Determine the salt value of the password. 
xgLS35S6 for Admin. It is the value between the second $ and third $. 
c. Crack the passwords of all users using OpenSSL tool. 
Admin: P@ssw0rd 
user1: trustno1 
user2: basketball 
user3: pokemon 
user4: batman 
user5: qwerty12345 
Hints: 
- It would be useful if you search for Linux shadow file password format.   
- You must use the latest OpenSSL version 1.1.1x for this problem. It would be helpful to 
read about creating Linux password hashes using OpenSSL. 
- You can use a password list for your cracking. There is a password list of most used 100K 
passwords, according to NIST attached with the HW. 
- You will need to write some code to iterate through the password list (feel free to use any 
language you prefer). 
- After cracking the password, ensure that you can access the Server.

2. The given Server users are managed as follows: 
- 
There are 5 users: user1, user2, …, user5. The first four users are staff members, but 
user5 is an external consultant. 
- 
User1 and user2 are programmers only, user4 is a manager only, and user3 is both 
programmer and manager.  
 
a. You are now the administrator of the server, and you are responsible for managing users 
and groups. Create 3 groups named “allstaff”, “prog” (short for programmers) and 
“mgmt” (short for management). Add users to the corresponding groups. List the users 
and groups to ensure the correct previous setup of system users and groups. Explain with 
screenshots how you applied this. 
 
- 
Inside their home directory, each programmer has a directory called code and a 
directory called documentation. Inside the code directory, there is a file called 
source_code.txt, as well as one application called myapp.exe. Inside the 
documentation directory, there is a file called notes.txt. 
- 
Each manager has a directory called finance (for financial information) including a 
confidential business.txt file. 
- 
Each user also has a file called schedule.txt in their home directory. 
 
The below shows how I added allstaff, prog, and mgmt groups. 
 
 
The below shows how I added the users to their respective groups.

We are also able to confirm that the users were allocated to the correct groups by using the command 
(sudo cat /etc/group) which shows the below output at the end of the file: 
 
b. Configure file access controls so that it explicitly applies only the following: 
- 
All users can view each other's schedules, but not other files in their home directory 
(except for as stated in the following). 
- 
All staff can view files in the documentation directory of other staff. 
- 
Programmers can view and edit each other's source code files, create new files in any 
code directory, as well as run each other's myapp.exe files. 
- 
Financial information (in the finance directory) is only viewable by the manager that 
owns the files, not by any other user. 
 
For step 1, I used (chmod u=r,go=r schedule.txt), all other users also able to view each others schedules 
and the upcoming steps ensure that other files in each users home directory is only accessible to the users 
that need the permission. 
 
For step 2, I used (chgrp -R allstaff documentation/) and (chmod 750 documentation/) for the 
documentation directory for all users 1-4 and also added (chmod ug=r,o=- notes.txt) for the notes.txt file. 
 
For step 3, I used (chgrp -R prog code/) and (chmod -R g+rwx code/) to be able to read, write, execute 
within the code/ directory. 
 
For step 4, I used (chmod -R go-rwx finance/) in user 3 and user 4 ensuring only they are able to view their 
files and also ensuring that only user 3 can view his own finance/ directory and user 4 can view his own 
finance/ directory. 
 
The below are the checks conducted to ensure all the permissions are given correctly. 
User 5 only able to see schedule.txt and nothing else since he is not a staff.

User 1 Access Rights (able to access all the users schedules, all code directories, create and modify new 
files within code directory, but not able to enter finance directory of user3 and user4): 
 
 
 
User 2 Access Rights (able to access all the users schedules, all code directories, create and modify new 
files within code directory, but not able to enter finance directory of user3 and user4):

User 3 Access Rights (Since user 3 is a programmer and manager, he is able to access code directories for 
all users and the finance directory for his own user.) 
 
 
 
 
User 4 Access Rights (Since user 4 is only a manager, he is able to access code directories for all users and 
the finance directory for his own user.) 
 
 
 
 
 
If I missed something that you would like me to include to further clarify, please let me know.

Hints: 
- Take screenshots of setting the access and listing it using (ls -l). Also, take screenshots of 
testing that the access control works by logging in as each user and checking they can(not) 
access the specified files/directories. 
- Use only the basic Linux permissions. Do NOT use advanced permissions such as setfacl 
or getfacl. 
- Use the “Introduction to Linux” Page to help you in the needed commands for this 
Homework.