Level 4: File Types (Human-Readable) — Gurumanie Singh
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Gurumanie Singh
 ← Back to Guide
 
 
 

 

 
 
 Bandit · Level 4
 File Types (Human-Readable)

 Find the only human-readable file among several in the inhere directory.

 

 

 
 Goal
 Level Goal

 
 The password for the next level is hidden among several files (-file00 through -file09) in the inhere directory. Only one is human-readable.
 

 

 

 
 Solution
 Step-by-Step Solution

 1. Exit Level 3 and SSH into Level 4

 
 After retrieving the Level 4 password from ...Hiding-From-You, exit the current session:
 

 exit

 
 Then connect as bandit4:
 

 ssh bandit4@bandit.labs.overthewire.org -p 2220

 2. List the Home Directory Contents

 
 Once logged in as bandit4, list files:
 

 ls

 
 You will see a directory named inhere.
 

 3. Change into inhere

 
 Enter the inhere directory:
 

 cd inhere

 4. Observe All Files with Leading Dashes

 
 Running a regular ls lists:
 

 ls

 
 You will see files named -file00, -file01, …, up to -file09.
 

 5. Identify the Human-Readable File

 
 Instead of opening each file individually, use the file command to check their types:
 

 file ./-*

 
 This will output each filename along with its file type. Search for the one marked ASCII text.
 

 
 The human-readable file is -file07.
 

 6. Read -file07 to Obtain the Password

 
 Display its contents:
 

 cat ./-file07

 
 The output is the password for bandit5.
 

 

 

 
 Summary
 Key Commands

 
 
 exit — return to local machine from Level 3.

 ssh bandit4@bandit.labs.overthewire.org -p 2220 — connect as bandit4.

 ls — list files; shows inhere directory.

 cd inhere — change into inhere directory.

 ls — list -file00 through -file09.

 file ./-* — identify file types; locate -file07 as ASCII text.

 cat ./-file07 — display the human-readable file; retrieve the Level 5 password.

 
 

 

 

 
 Gurumanie Singh Dhiman
 © 2026 · Singapore · B.S. Computer Engineering

COMMANDS:
exit
ssh bandit4@bandit.labs.overthewire.org -p 2220
ls
cd inhere
ls
file ./-*
cat ./-file07