Level 9: Extract Human-Readable Password — Gurumanie Singh
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Gurumanie Singh
 ← Back to Guide
 
 
 

 

 
 
 Bandit · Level 9
 Extract Human-Readable Password

 Extract the password from human-readable strings in a binary file using strings and grep.

 

 

 
 Goal
 Level Goal

 
 The password for the next level is one of the few human-readable strings in data.txt, preceded by several "=" characters.
 

 

 

 
 Solution
 Step-by-Step Solution

 1. Exit Level 8 and SSH into Level 9

 
 After obtaining the Level 9 password from data.txt in Level 8, exit the current session:
 

 exit

 
 Then connect as bandit9 using the password acquired:
 

 ssh bandit9@bandit.labs.overthewire.org -p 2220

 2. List the Home Directory

 
 Once logged in as bandit9, run:
 

 ls

 
 You will see data.txt listed.
 

 3. Inspect data.txt

 
 To view its contents:
 

 cat data.txt

 
 The file is large and contains mostly non-printable characters. The password is one of the readable strings beginning with multiple "=" characters.
 

 4. Extract Human-Readable Strings

 
 To list all printable strings in the file:
 

 strings data.txt

 
 This command outputs every sequence of printable characters. Among them, look for the string preceded by multiple "=" characters. You may be able to spot the password. If it is still difficult to see, follow the next step.
 

 5. Filter for the Password Using grep

 
 To directly find the line containing several "=" characters:
 

 strings data.txt | grep "==="

 
 This command displays the human-readable string that begins with multiple "=" characters. That string is the password for bandit10.
 

 

 

 
 Summary
 Key Commands

 
 
 exit — return to your local machine from Level 8.

 ssh bandit9@bandit.labs.overthewire.org -p 2220 — connect as bandit9.

 ls — list files; shows data.txt.

 cat data.txt — view file contents (mostly non-printable characters).

 strings data.txt — extract all printable strings from the file.

 strings data.txt | grep "===" — filter for the line starting with multiple "=" characters; this line is the password.

 
 

 

 

 
 Gurumanie Singh Dhiman
 © 2026 · Singapore · B.S. Computer Engineering

COMMANDS:
exit
ssh bandit9@bandit.labs.overthewire.org -p 2220
ls
cat data.txt
strings data.txt
strings data.txt | grep "==="