CPRE 4310 
M01 Homework 
 
Assignments will be submitted in PDF format via Canvas.  
Please submit your homework online through Canvas. Late homework will not be accepted.  
Important: Your submission must be in .pdf format ONLY! 
You are not allowed to use AI tools to answer any of the HW questions 
 
1. What is the difference between a threat, vulnerability, and risk? 
A threat is a potential security harm to an asset. A vulnerability is a situation where corruption, leaks, or 
unavailability occurs to an asset. A risk is the potential for a loss or damage when a threat exploits a 
vulnerability.  
For example, a vulnerability exposes an organization to potential threats. A threat is a malicious or 
negative event that takes advantage of the vulnerability of the organization. Then, a risk is the potential 
for loss and/or damage when a threat takes place. 
2. Consider an automated teller machine (ATM) in which users provide a personal identification 
number (PIN) and a card for account access. 
a. Give examples of confidentiality, integrity, and availability requirements for the system 
(ATM, Card, Pin) and, in each case, indicate the degree of importance (High, Medium, 
Low) of the requirement. 
 
Confidentiality 
Integrity 
Availability 
ATM 
A user’s bank balance details 
and transaction history 
should remain secure and 
outside the reach of 
unauthorized access. (High) 
Data such as the transaction 
history and transfers should 
be recorded and shown 
accurately. (High) 
ATM should only be down for 
maintainence during off-peak hours. 
(Medium) 
Card 
The card number should 
only be known by the user 
and his chip/magnetic strip 
must be kept private. (High) 
Data on the chip/magnetic 
strip of the card should not be 
altered by any third person or 
threat actor. (Medium) 
The card should be durable enough to 
survive a few years and must handle 
the wear and tear of being put into 
and pulled out of the machine 
without damaging the chip or 
magnetic strip on it. (High) 
Pin 
Pin code should never be 
seen/known by other users. 
(High) 
Pin must be verified by the 
ATM to ensure it is the same 
as the user set it initially and 
was not tampered with. (High) 
The pin used by the user should be 
able to be input by the user easily 
using the ATM and must be 
responsive. (Medium)

b. For the following scenarios, please indicate which security property (confidentiality, 
integrity, and availability, non-repudiation) is affected, and suggest how can we fix this: 
i. The ATM reads the Card data and Pin, then sends them as clear text on the network. 
Confidentiality is affected. In order to fix this we can send the data from card and pin 
using stronger encryption instead of clear text. 
ii. The ATM allows user to increase/decrease his account monetary values (without 
actually adding/deducting money to/from his account), and user can claim that he/she 
was not responsible for this. 
Integrity and non-repudiation is affected. In order to fix these issues, we can disallow 
users from modifying their account monetary values and track all other changes made 
to or in the account to ensure we are aware who is responsible. 
iii. The network connection between the ATM and the bank was down, and still the ATM 
allowed the users to perform their transactions. 
Integrity and availability is affected. In order to fix these issues, the ATM needs to 
have network access to the bank to validate the information being keyed in by the 
users. The ATM should enforce authorization (with the bank) for the transactions 
being performed by the users and implement some form of redundancy protocols for 
when the network goes down to maintain availability for the users. 
 
3. Consider the following general code for allowing access to a resource: 
DWORD dwRet = IsAccessAllowed(...); 
if (dwRet == ERROR) { 
// Security check failed. 
// Inform user that access is denied. 
} else { 
// Security check OK. 
} 
a. Explain the security flaw in this program. 
The above code allows access to a resource as long as dwRet is not an error. This is a clear flaw 
because there may be warnings, access denied, connection error or even invalid requests that 
are returned by dwRet that the above code does not check for. 
b. Rewrite the code to avoid the flaw (Hint: Consider the design principle of fail-safe defaults.) 
 
DWORD dwRet = IsAccessAllowed(…); 
if (dwRet == ACCESS_GRANTED){ 
 
// Security check OK. 
} else { 
 
// Security check failed. 
 
// Inform user that access is denied. 
}