CPRE 4310 
M03 HW 
 
Assignments will be submitted in PDF format via Canvas.  
Please submit your homework online through Canvas. Late homework will not be accepted.  
Important: Your submission must be in .pdf format ONLY! 
Please ensure that you support all your answers with the correct screenshots showing your solutions. 
You are not allowed to use AI tools to answer any of the HW questions 
 
1. Briefly state the differences between DAC and MAC access control mechanisms. 
Discretionary Access Control (DAC) and Mandatory Access Control (MAC) have quite a few 
differences. One of the most prominent difference between them is that DAC works by controlling 
access based on the identity of the requester and on the basis of access rules (to determine what 
users can and cannot do). Whereas MAC as the name suggests, controls access to resources based 
on comparing security labels with security clearances instead. 
Additionally, MAC is mostly used in government organizations where high security is needed for 
sensitive data. DAC is more flexible as compared to MAC so it is used in organizations where there 
is a need for more user-based and collaborative type environment. 
 
2. The inclusion of the salt in the UNIX password scheme increases the difficulty of guessing by a 
factor of 4096. But the salt is stored in plaintext in the same entry as the corresponding 
ciphertext password. Therefore, salt is known to the attacker. Based on that, why is it asserted 
that the salt increases security? 
Adding a salt in the UNIX password scheme increases the difficult of guessing by a factor of 4096 
because even though the attacker knows the salt, he still needs to use the salt added with 
different passwords to try to find the correct password. The salt does not increase the passwords 
security inherently, but instead just makes it harder for the attacker to use rainbow tables to try 
to find the right password. 
To further explain this a little more, basically adding a salt makes pre-computated tables (Rainbow 
tables) useless. This is because if an attacker gets a hash of a password without a salt, he can check 
that hash against his Rainbow table to find out the original password. However, if he gets the hash 
of a password that was stored with a salt, even if he knows the salt, he needs to look at each 
(pass+salt) combination since every salt is different for each user, and so are their passwords. This 
makes using Rainbow Tables useless because with every user, there is a different salt attached.

3. In the traditional UNIX file access model, UNIX systems provide a default setting for newly 
created files and directories, which the owner may later change. The default is typically full 
access for the owner combined with one of the following: no access for group and other, 
read/execute access for group and none for other, or read/execute access for both group and 
other. Briefly discuss the advantages and disadvantages of each of these cases, including an 
example of a type of organization where each would be appropriate. 
One thing to note between all cases is that they all do not allow anyone other than the owner to 
have write permissions, this is done as a security measure because giving write permissions is as 
close as giving delete permissions and is often quite dangerous if the file/directory is important. 
Case 1: rwx --- ---: 
The biggest advantage this use case has is that it is the most secure out of all the cases since it 
only allows only the owner to read, write, and execute a file/directory. However, the main 
disadvantage that comes with this use case is that it makes it difficult for other users to even 
see/read the file contents which in turn makes it difficult for collaboration to take place. 
Use case: Government Organizations/Agency where security of files is crucial and confidentiality 
is of utmost importance. 
Case 2: rwx r-x ---: 
This case allows the owner to have read, write, and execute permissions while giving read and 
execute permissions to groups, and no permissions to others. This use case is overall the most 
well balanced and practical use case out of the three, mainly due to allowing collaborations to 
occur with a group but also restricting other users from seeing or executing the file. However, the 
biggest disadvantage in this use case is that there needs to be someone to constantly watch over 
the permissions to ensure that the right users are in the right groups. While the file may only be 
read and executed by group members, there needs to be someone who has a daily/weekly check 
to ensure only authorized users exist in the group. 
Use case: An organization/company that handles a code base that needs to be collaborated on by 
multiple people within a group. The team leader could be the owner of the file/directory while 
the “coders” could be the group that needs to read and execute the files for testing purposes. 
Case 3: rwx r-x r-x: 
This case again allows the owner to have read, write, and execute permissions while giving read 
and execute permissions to both groups and others. The biggest advantage this use case has 
compared to case 2 is that it does not need much oversight when it comes to the permissions, 
since both groups and others are allowed to read and execute, allowing for maximum 
collaborations without any hiccups. However, this is also its biggest disadvantage in a sense 
(double edged sword) since any user can read and execute the file/directory, this type of setting 
of permissions is the worst from a security standpoint.  
Use case: University Shared Server (canvas) to share lecture notes and documents needed by 
students authorized to access the server can see their grades, lecture notes, etc.

4. Provide short answers to the following questions: 
a. Why should system administrators remove unnecessary services, applications, and protocols? 
Removing unneccessary services, applications, or protocols is a hardening technique to ensure that 
we only keep what we use on our system. This also helps us reduce the number of ways that an 
attacker can try to access/get into our system. 
b. Where is application and service configuration information stored on Unix and Linux systems? 
The application and service config info is usually stored in the /etc directory.  
 
c. 
How does “chroot jail” used to improve application security? And what are its limitations? 
A “chroot jail” simply isolates a process and its children from the rest of the file system. The 
command ‘chroot’ basically changes the root directory from root to a new, restricted directory. Its 
limitations are that it is not a complete security solution since a process that is running with root 
permissions can escape this “chroot jail”. Furthermore, it is not as easy as just starting a process 
with chroot and you have put it in a jail, it is xomplec and requires copying all files related/needed 
by the process into the jail directory. 
 
5. Logging is a very important control for operating system and network security, explain the 
following: 
a. Why is logging important? 
Logging is especially important when we want to get to the bottom of why an error or 
crash in the system occurred. We can look deeper into previous logs that were saved by 
journald to identify what caused our services to run into issues and what the last few 
logs were just before a system crash to identify the possible actor of the crash.  
 
Furthermore, since logs are basically saved outputs from services, they are crucial for 
our system security because they provide a detailed and thorough chronological record 
of all the events occurred/occuring. This recording of data is important because it is 
used by Intrusion Detection Systems, Incident Response, and System Monitoring.  
  
b. What are its limitations as a security control? 
I feel that the main limitation of logging is that it is unable to do anything in particular to 
recover the system. While it helps us find the root cause of the issues and crashes on 
our system services, it does not have any features that allow it to do more than just 
track everything.  
 
On top of this, another key limitation of logging as a security control is that it is a 
reactive sort of behavior and not a proactive or preventive measure. Another limitation 
that I can think of is that logging as we know is critical for identifying important things 
going on in our system and securing it, if our logs go missing or are attacked/deleted by 
an actor, then we may not be able to get to the bottom of what went wrong (makes it 
much more difficult to do cyber forensic analysis too).

c. What are the pros and cons of remote logging? 
Remote logging allows us to have an improved version of security and integrity, 
centralized analysis and monitoring of logs (which in turn allows long term storage since 
it is remote), and simplified audit checks. All these pros allow us to handle remote logs 
better to a certain extent, and also with logs being remote, they further make access to 
them more convenient. However, on the flip side, since these logs are centralized, they 
also have the downside of being a single point of failure. Additionally, there is also a 
higher level of complexity and cost involved when it comes to logging in a remote 
manner. 
 
d. Why is it important to rotate log files (overwrite old log files)? 
Apart from the fact that log files fill up and should not exceed a certain size (for reading 
and viewing purposes), there are also other important factors to consider such as the 
performance, management and compliance side of things. Performance could slow 
down if there is just one file that has not been rotated and continues logging all the 
data, and this would be troublesome if we lose that one log file or it becomes corrupt 
because then we have no other logs to look into. 
Furthermore, having smaller sized log files that rotate often would be safer if you know 
that the system has issues and crashes frequently. Because then after a system crashes, 
we may lose access to the some files but not all if we have frequent rotations. In 
addition to losing the log files, there is also a chance that a file could be corrupted, this 
would also have a smaller impact if the journal logs are rotated in a timely manner. 
 
6. Consider an automated audit log analysis tool (e.g., swatch). Can you propose some generic 
rules which could be used to distinguish “suspicious activities” from normal user behavior on a 
system for some organization, for the following activities: 
a. User Authentication 
i. We should have a rule dedicated to watch for multiple failed attempts to log in 
(possible brute force). This rule can be set up to either look out for a user trying 
many different passwords on one user account, or a single password being used 
with multiple usernames. 
ii. We should probably also have another rule to monitor where the login attempts 
are coming from, if it is a single IP address with multiple attempts to log in 
(either through different usernames or passwords) then it should be flagged. 
iii. Another rule could also be on the lookout for if the login attempts (for a specific 
username) are coming from many different IP addresses that are very different. 
(This could be one of those impossible travel situations) 
b. Website Access 
i. A rule should be created if the user is accessing various different links one after 
another. Especially if there is no correlation between the links. For example, one 
moment the user is looking at the Careers page, next he is on the /admin page 
or /login page.  
ii. Following up on the above rule, we could set up another similar rule to watch 
out for malicious scripting or SQLi attacks if the user tries 1=1 or something

similar on the website URL or in one of the forms that may be present on the 
website. 
iii. A rule should be made for users who try to log in using the same username 
through multiple different IP addresses in a short time span. 
iv. Another good rule to add would be to see if there are too many requests to 
login coming from a single IP address. (Possible Brute force attack)