1 
 
CPR E 4890: Computer Networking and Data Communication 
Lab Experiment #1 – Networking Utility Programs 
(Total Points: 100) 
Pre-lab Recommendations 
Labs in this course will typically be conducted using the 489labuser account. This means you will not 
have access to your personal drive, and any files left on the lab computer will be visible to others. The TA 
recommends bringing a flash drive to easily bring home screenshots or files collected during the lab. Or, 
you are welcome to use any file transfer method you prefer, such as https://www.file.io. 
Objective 
To demonstrate how to use network diagnostic and probing tools such as ping, nslookup, ifconfig, 
iperf, traceroute, tcptraceroute, Nmap, tcpdump, tcptrace, and  Wireshark. 
Lab Expectations 
Work through the lab individually and let the TA know if you have any questions. After the lab, write up a 
lab report and be sure to: 
a) Attend the lab. (5 points) 
b) Summarize what you learned in a few paragraphs. (10 points) 
c) Answer any questions asked in the exercises throughout the experiment. (85 points in total, 
with 5 points for each of the 17 questions) 
 
Answers to questions shall contain: 
• 
A screenshot including the command/action and its output 
• 
A written comment or annotation of the screenshot (as appropriate) 
Problem Description 
In this lab experiment, you will learn about several network utility programs. Please use the “Networking 
Commands Reference” document provided alongside this lab description. For each set of exercises, 
read through the reference for the command and use manual pages if necessary. 
 
Note: Network probing tools, such as tcpdump and Wireshark, are useful for analyzing network 
traffic and troubleshooting network problems.  A number of privacy and security concerns are 
raised with the use of these tools – please use them in an ethical manner. 
 
Warning: During this lab, do not log into any websites or remote applications.  The tools we will be 
using allow anyone to see the content of packets on the wire.  Hence, your username and/or 
password may be easy to discover. 
Login Information 
Make sure that you are logged in to your lab computer using the following credentials (otherwise, some 
commands that require “sudo” won’t work): 
Username: 489labuser 
Password: 489labuser

2 
 
EXERCISES 
ip a & ifconfig 
1. What devices (interfaces) are available on your machine? What are the IP 
addresses assigned to them? 
(5   points) 
2. What is the device (interface) named `lo` used for? Use manual 
pages or search online. What address is assigned to the device? 
(5 points) 
ping 
3. Ping the following destinations and report the average round-trip-time (the 
latency) to each one: 
  www.google.com 
  www.iastate.edu 
  vm.iastate.edu 
  127.0.0.1 
  www.cam.ac.uk 
 
(5 points) 
4. Rank the latency from least to greatest. Why do you suppose this is the 
case? Why are pings to 127.0.0.1 so much faster than pings to other 
destinations? Use the internet, manual pages, or ask your TA if stuck. 
(5 points) 
5. Using the manual pages for ping (man ping), determine which flag/option 
can be used to specify the interface pings will be sent out of? Which option 
can be used to specify packet size? 
(5 points) 
traceroute & tcptraceroute 
6. Perform a traceroute to google.com. How many hops does it take for your 
packets to reach google.com? What is the latency? About how many hops 
are within the ISU network (example internal address: vm.iastate.edu)? 
 
(5 points) 
7. Perform another traceroute to google.com using TCP packets instead of 
ICMP. Are there any differences in the output? (Hint: sudo is required for 
tcptraceroute)  
(5 points) 
nslookup 
8. Perform nslookup of www.iastate.edu. What is the IP address of this 
server? 
(5 points) 
9. What is the mail exchanger for ece.iastate.edu?  
(5 points) 
10. Which of the following are aliases? If it’s an alias, record its canonical name. 
  www.apple.com 
  apple.com 
  www.google.com 
(5 points) 
iperf 
11. Your TA is running the iperf server program on the machine 192.168.254.1. 
Run the iperf client program against the TA’s iperf server and report the 
bandwidth of the connection in Gigabits per second (Gbps), Gigabytes per 
second (GBps), Megabits per second (Mbps), and Megabytes per second 
(MBps). 
 (5   points)

3 
 
nmap 
12. Run a port map against your own machine. Is port 22 open? Which service runs 
on this port? 
 (5   points) 
tcpdump 
13. For this exercise, work with a partner and alternate roles. Your machine is 
currently undergoing a ping flood attack! On partner #1’s computer, execute ping 
[address] where “address” is partner #2’s IP address. On partner #2’s computer, 
use tcpdump and filter for ICMP packets to determine the IP address of the 
machine that is sending the packets. Include the IP addresses of your machine 
and your partner’s machine in your report. (Note: use IP address 192.168.254.x 
where x can be found using earlier command; also, for a more accurate flood 
attack, –f can be used but requires sudo). 
 (5   points) 
Wireshark 
Note: For each part of this exercise, make sure that previous attack simulations and other activities, such 
as browsing, are completed. This will provide a smoother experience and help you avoid dealing with too 
many unrelated packets during analysis. 
 
To generate HTTP connections, open a web browser such as Firefox on the command line with, for 
instance, “firefox www.google.com”. Let’s analyze the TCP connections between your computer and 
www.iastate.edu.  
 
Start a new capture and then connect to www.iastate.edu. Let it run for about 10 seconds. Use 
Statistics-> Conversations -> TCP to see all the TCP connections between your computer and various 
IP addresses. For this exercise, we are concerned with connections to the IP address corresponding to 
www.iastate.edu. (Hint: what command resolves a hostname to an IP address?). Sort the connections by 
Address B and take a screenshot of only the conversations between your IP address and the IP 
address of “www.iastate.edu”. Then answer the following questions: 
 
14. For each connection, indicate the duration and the number of packets sent from 
your computer during that connection. 
 (5   points) 
15. What were the destination ports used and what protocols do they correspond to? 
 (5   points) 
 
 
Continuing the tcpdump example, your computer is still under a ping flood (ICMP request and reply 
packets).  Work with a partner and perform alternate roles. Start a new capture, and let it run for about 10 
seconds. 
 
16. Determine how much data (in bytes) each ICMP packet contains. (Hint: the 
conversations panel does not support ICMP explicitly; you can capture the traffic 
between your two nodes to make sure the result is valid)  
 (5   points) 
 
Start a new capture, and let it run while you complete a traceroute and tcptraceroute to 
www.ebay.com.  
 
17. What types of packets are sent with traceroute? What types of packets are 
sent with tcptraceroute? 
 (5   points)