CPR E 4890: Computer Networking and Data Communication
Lab Experiment #9 – CloudLab Experiment: TCP Congestion Control
Summary:
In this lab I was able to pick up some real-world knowledge on exactly how TCP Congestion Control works. Using CloudLab and using the server, client nodes I was able to use iPerf to generate three TCP flows and also the kernels tracepoint to capture each packet and its congestion control data. 
From the data analytics section of the lab I was able to see exactly how TCP Congestion Control works where there are Slow Start and Congestion Avoidance phases. In the Slow Start phase it was obvious to see since there was a sudden spike in the graph whereas in the Congestion Avoidance phase there was a staircase like behavior since the increments are lesser. There was also only one timeout that I noticed (not entirely sure it that one counts since it was at the beginning of the graph) but I think it is a timeout since the cwnd was at 1 and the ssthresh value was also pretty low.
Q. Using your plot and/or experiment data, explain how the behavior of TCP is different in the Slow Start and Congestion Avoidance phases. 
The behavior of TCP is different in the Slow Start and Congestion Avoidance phases because when it comes to Slow Start the cwnd grows exponentially even though the sender increases cwnd by 1 MSS for each ACK received. In my plot this is shown at the start of each graph where the sudden spike occurs within the first few seconds. This continues until cwnd is no longer below the ssthresh. Whereas, when it comes to the Congestion Avoidance phase, the cwnd grows in a more linear fashion. It increases by roughly 1 MSS per RTT which makes it look like a staircase that is clearly visible from my plot. This continues until another congestion is detected and the whole point is to ensure that the network does not get overwhelmed.
Q. In addition, using your plot, explain what happens to both the congestion window and the slow start threshold when 3 duplicate ACKs are received. 
In my plot, whenever there are 3 duplicate ACKs received, the ssthresh gets set to half the current cwnd, and then the cwnd is reduced to the new ssthresh value. For example, at the first 3 duplicate ACK event on port 37998, cwnd was around 27 MSS and after that event the cwnd dropped to around 15 and ssthresh is set to almost the same. The key thing to note is that the cwnd does not drop all the way to 1 and this is what distinguishes Fast Retransmit/Recovery from a full timeout. The connection then resumes Congestion Avoidance immediately from the new ssthresh, which is why the recovery is much faster than starting over from 1 would be.