— §2025-CPRE-4300-1 > Quizzes » Hl Module 09: Quiz

Spring 2025
= . . Submission Details:
oo @ Module 09: Quiz
Time: 9 minutes

Announcements Due Apr 18 at 11:59pm Points 10 Questions 5 Time Limit 12 Minutes
Current Score: 10 out of 10
ih Grades 2)

i Kept Score: 10 out of 10

Course Reserves Instructions P

© Smart Search DO NOT HIT THE BUTTON UNTIL YOU'RE READY TO TAKE THE QUIZ.
ie ISU Syllabus
@) Statements

Take the Quiz

/

This quiz is over the materials for Module 08 and Module 09. Module 08 topics include sockets,
application-level programming, buffer overflows, and server/client communication. Module 09 materials
cover email communications, email header analysis, and spoofing. Before beginning this quiz, it would be
best to understand the content of email headers and how sockets are initialized and used.

Purpose

Task

e You may only take this quiz once.

e Make sure you will not be interrupted so you can focus on completing the quiz.

e Make sure you have a reliable internet connection.

e You have 12 minutes to complete this quiz. Once you start the quiz, you cannot stop the timer.

o Pay attention to the time. The time remaining is located on a timer on the right sidebar.

© The quiz will automatically submit after your time is up or if it hits the due date (whichever comes
first).

© If you accidentally navigate away from the quiz but have time remaining, you should be able to
pick up where you left off.

e For multiple select questions (e.g., the ‘select all that apply' questions with checkboxes), Canvas auto-
grading will reduce the overall score for incorrectly selected options. Unselected options will not alter
the score (you won't gain or lose points for not selecting a statement or option, regardless of whether
it is correct or incorrect). Be mindful when selecting options for this style of question.

¢ Open book/open notes/open internet - but answers must be your own. Do not copy and do not
plagiarize.

e Don't hit the button until you're ready to take the quiz!

Grading Criteria

To complete this assignment, you will answer all of the questions for this assignment. Canvas will show
your scores upon submission. If you have questions about what you missed, please contact your TA.

Solutions

You will be able to see your quiz responses after submitting the quiz. Canvas will show answers with
feedback. Please note this feedback and any corrections; you will only see this screen once.

Attempt History

Attempt Time Score

LATEST Attempt 1 9 minutes 10 out of 10

Score for this quiz: 10 out of 10
Submitted Apr 18 at 4:13pm
This attempt took 9 minutes.

Question 1 2/2 pts

Select all that apply: Email was originally designed to be used to send
simple text messages. MIME has enabled the transfer of complex data
types, which in turn has enabled bad actors to send the following through
email

Note: Canvas auto-grading will reduce the overall score for this problem for incorrectly
selected options. Unselected options will not alter the score (you won't gain or lose points

for options not selected, regardless of whether it is correct or incorrect).

! :
Correct! viruses
Correct
I
Correct! worms
Correct

! oe
Correct! malicious code

Correct
I
Correct! hyperlink to a malicious website

Correct

Correct!

images that send information to a server when the email is opened

Correct

Question 2 2/2 pts

Select all that apply: Buffer overflow is a security concern because it could

Note: Canvas auto-grading will reduce the overall score for this problem for incorrectly
selected options. Unselected options will not alter the score (you won't gain or lose points

for options not selected, regardless of whether it is correct or incorrect).

Correct!
allow another program to execute

Correct

I
Correct! cause a denial of service (DoS)

Correct

I
Correct! corrupt existing data

Correct
I
Correct! crash a program

Correct

Correct!

expose security-sensitive data

Correct
Question 3 2/2pts
Microsoft Outlook Gmail
Application Application

Internet

Figure 1: Alice, using MS Outlook, is separated from
Bob, using Gmail, by three MTAs.

For the scenario outlined in Figure 1, indicate what information is
contained in the email headers on the email intercepted at the designated
point along the path. Assume Alice is sending an email to Bob.

Option1 Option2 | Option3 Option4 | Option 5
Header Header Header
Alice’s Email] | |MS Outlook MTA B MTA B
Alice’s Email
Contents Header

MS Outlook} | |MS Outlook
Header Header
Alice’s Email] | |Alice’s Email
Contents Contents

Option 1
Option 2
Option 3

Correct. Each MTA will add its own header on top of what headers
already exist (i.e., encapsulates existing data and adds a header to that
encapsulated data).

Option 5

Question 4 2/2 pts

Alice and Bob have been good friends for years and frequently email each
other using SMTP. They always use the same computers on the same
networks when emailing each other, and the email travels across the
Internet through the MTAs depicted in Figure 2.

e) Internet

° &
——
‘a a a) 3) alice@dougj1.net

bob@bobsmail.org —
MTA1 TAZ MTA3 MTA4
eve-el-1@hackalot.com

Figure 2: Network diagram depicting the connectivity
between Alice, Bob, Eve, and various Mail Transfer Agents
(MTAs), highlighting the flow of email communications.

Suppose Eve sends Alice a spoofed email impersonating Bob. Select all of
the true statements.

Note: Canvas auto-grading will reduce the overall score for this problem for
incorrectly selected options. Unselected options will not alter the score (you won't
gain or lose points for options not selected, regardless of whether it is correct or

incorrect).

If Eve is spoofing Bob's email, there is no way for Alice to determine who
really sent the email in this scenario.

Each MTA header is stripped off and replaced as the email traverses the
Internet, Alice can only see the last MTA in the header, making the emails
indistinguishable when spoofed.

Correct!

Once she received the email, Alice would see that it was routed through
the same mail servers as Bob’s email.

Correct.

Correct!

Alice will know it’s a spoofed email when she doesn’t see a header
containing Bob’s IP address.

Correct.

Bob and Eve’s computers are located behind routers, so their real IP
addresses will be hidden from Alice.

Page 309 of the textbook goes into more detail about email
headers and "email forensics", which can be used in this situation to
find a phishing email.

Question 5 2/2 pts

Myles and Julia are working on a team project, and Myles needs to send a
document to Julia. He sends Julia the document via the email system using
Thunderbird's desktop client. Julia receives and reads the email using
Microsoft Outlook Exchange. The scenario shown below in Figure 3
depicts the email path between Myles and Julia, which includes the
devices Myles’s computer, Julia’s computer, and email servers 1-4 (for this
problem, we’re ignoring the intermediary router hops on the Internet).

(2d Internet

Email Server 1 Email Server 2 Email Server 3 Email Server 4

Figure 3: Example email relay between Myles & Julia.

For the connection protocol at each arrow, identify which device is the
client and which is the server. Fill out Table 1 with information on which
device is the client and which is the server at each location.

Table 1: Client-Server Information for the Email Relay.

Location Client Server
A [ Select ] , [ Select ] S
B [ Select ] 7 [ Select ] 7
Cc [ Select ] , [ Select ] S
D [ Select ] 7 [ Select ] 7
E [ Select ] , [ Select ] S

Consider the application protocol name and the purpose specific to that
point. Fill out Table 2 with the protocols IMAP4, SMTP Port 25, and SMTP
Port 587, which are all used at least once in this scenario and reflect their
typical usage in email transmission.

Table 2: Protocol Information for the Email

Relay.
Location Protocol
A [ Select ] 7
B [ Select ] 7
Cc SMTP Port 25
D SMTP Port 25
E IMAP4

Answer 1:

Correct! Myles's Computer

Correct.

Answer 2:

Correct! Email Server 41

Correct.

Answer 3:

Correct! Myles's Computer

Correct.

Answer 4:

Correct! Email Server 41

Correct.

Answer 5:

Correct! Email Server 41

Correct.

Answer 6:

Correct! Email Server 2

Correct.

Answer 7:

Correct! Email Server 2

Correct.

Answer 8:

Correct! Email Server 3

Correct.

Answer 9:

Correct! Julia's Computer

Correct.

Answer 10:

Correct! Email Server 4

Correct.

Answer 11:

Correct! SMTP Port 587

Correct.

Answer 12:

Correct! SMTP Port 587

Correct.

Answer 13:

Correct! SMTP Port 25

Correct.

Answer 14:

Correct! SMTP Port 25

Correct.

Answer 15:

Correct! IMAP4

Correct.

Quiz Score: 10 out of 10