= —_ §2025-CPRE-4300-1 > Quizzes » HM Module 10: Quiz

Spring 2025
Home
Announcements

Grades

Course Reserves

Smart Search

ISU Syllabus
Statements

@ Module 10: Quiz ~*

Due Apr 25 at 11:59pm Points 10 Questions 4 Time Limit 10 Minutes

Instructions

Purpose

This quiz covers Chapter 10: Web Security materials from the textbook and lectures. Materials emphasized include web
proxies and the HTTP command-and-response protocol; you should understand HTTPS, certificates, and encryption's
effect on web traffic. As with previous chapters, make sure you know about the various vulnerabilities and potential
mitigation techniques discussed throughout the chapter.

Please note: Although the Module 10 assignment emphasized email headers, an extension from the Module 9 materials,
this quiz does not include questions regarding email headers.

Task

DO NOT HIT THE BUTTON UNTIL YOU'RE READY TO TAKE THE QUIZ.

Take the Quiz

/

e You may not work in groups or with another person.

e You may only take this quiz once.

e Make sure you will not be interrupted so you can focus on completing the quiz.

e Make sure you have a reliable internet connection.

e You have 10 minutes to complete this quiz. Once you start the quiz, you cannot stop the timer.

© Pay attention to the time. The time remaining is located on a timer on the right sidebar.

°o The quiz will automatically submit after your time is up or if it hits the due date (whichever comes first).

© If you accidentally navigate away from the quiz but have time remaining, you should be able to pick up where you
left off.

e For multiple select questions (e.g., the ‘select all that apply’ questions with checkboxes), Canvas auto-grading will
reduce the overall score for incorrectly selected options. Unselected options will not alter the score (you won't gain or
lose points for not selecting a statement or option, regardless of whether it is correct or incorrect). Be mindful when
selecting options for this style of question.

¢ Open book/open notes/open internet - but answers must be your own. Do not copy and do not plagiarize. The time
will go quickly, so do not rely on being able to look up answers.

e Don't hit the button until you're ready to take the quiz!

Grading Criteria

To complete this assignment, you will answer all of the questions for this assignment. Canvas will show your scores upon
submission. If you have questions about what you missed, please contact your TA(s).

Solutions

You will be able to see your quiz responses after submitting the quiz. Canvas will show answers with feedback. Please note
this feedback and any corrections, as you will only see this screen once.

Attempt History

Attempt Time Score

LATEST Attempt 1 10 minutes 9 out of 10

Score for this quiz: 9 out of 10
Submitted Apr 25 at 4:43pm
This attempt took 10 minutes.

Question 1 3/3 pts

While on a break at her off-campus part-time job, Alice browses the Internet. She begins
to navigate to ISU's website without connecting to the ISU VPN. Alice's employer has a
web proxy server on the network that handles web requests.

Internet
Wireless Employer Isu

Access Point ==")) Router _ _ Router
(com) a
=—-@—p)-e-@—-—-@®—-@—.

i
es
Alice Proxy ISU Server
t _ t t ¢

Figure 1: Diagram showing Alice's data path from her computer via
employer's AP, proxy, and router to the ISU server.

Determine the GET request packet's IP addresses, denoted by the tuple <Source IP,
Destination IP>, if the packet is intercepted at the positions marked in the network
diagram.

1. Position A: <Alice’s Computer IP, Proxy IP>

2. Position B: <Proxy IP, ISU Server IP>

3. Position C: <Proxy IP, ISU Server IP>

Now assume no proxy exists on the employer's network. Determine the packet's IP
addresses if it was intercepted somewhere on the Internet.

4. Position D: <Alice's Computer IP, ISU Server IP>

Answer 1:

Correct! <Alice’s Computer IP, Proxy IP>

Correct. Alice must send her request through the web proxy. The AP acts as a relay
and does not alter the traffic.

Answer 2:

Correct! <Proxy IP, ISU Server IP>

Correct. Once the request has passed through the proxy, the request will be sourced
from the proxy with a destination of the ISU server.

Answer 3:

Correct! <Proxy IP, ISU Server IP>

Correct. Once the request has passed through the proxy, the request will be sourced
from the proxy with a destination of the ISU server.

Answer 4:

Correct! <Alice's Computer IP, ISU Server IP>

Correct. Without a proxy involved, Alice's request is sent directly to the destination,
the ISU server.

Question 2 1/2 pts

Since most web applications only need to respond to a few HTTP command message
request types, other methods are rarely used or are disabled on the public-facing
Internet for security reasons.

Which of the request types below are implemented by most modern web servers?
Select all that apply.

Note: Canvas auto-grading will reduce the overall score for this problem for incorrectly selected options.
Unselected options will not alter the score (you won't gain or lose points for options not selected,

regardless of whether it is correct or incorrect).

COPY

DELETE

Correct! GET

Correct.

You Answered HEAD

Incorrect

LINK

MOVE

PATCH

Correct! POST

Correct

PUT

UNLINK

Question 3 2/2 pts

Select all of the true statements regarding HTTPS.

Note: Canvas auto-grading will reduce the overall score for this problem for incorrectly selected
options. Unselected options will not alter the score (you won't gain or lose points for options not

selected, regardless of whether it is correct or incorrect).

If a web server has its private key leaked, another web server could spoof a secure website,
as certificates are public information.

Correct. The private key and certificate combination are the verification method for
HTTPS, and losing just the private key means anyone can set up a server using the
certificate / key combination.

HTTP is an encrypted protocol and not vulnerable to sniffing attacks.

Browsers initially contain multiple authority certificates, and cannot add any more
certificates. Any verifiers which do not have a saved certificate are immediately rejected by
the browser.

To support HTTPS, browsers maintain a cache of private key "certificates" associated with
website domains.

Encrypting web traffic still exposes the IP addresses of the web servers being accessed,
allowing a sniffer to determine the websites someone was browsing.

Correct. HTTPS encryption is capable of protecting the web traffic and pages itself,
but it does not cover the IP addresses, which are required to be visible for routing.
This can cause a privacy violation, even with HTTPS.

Question 4 3/3 pts

Many web-based vulnerabilities are discussed throughout Chapter 10, and domain
administrators (the people responsible for managing the physical web server) have
various techniques available to mitigate many of these vulnerabilities. Assume you are a
domain administrator for Riverside Enterprise, an aerial rideshare company.

For each vulnerability described below, select the best technique from the available
choices for a domain administrator to use or apply to mitigate the vulnerability.

Correct! An attacker sniffs credit card

Enforce HTTPS

>

information when a user on
Riverside Enterprise’s website hits
a submit button, which sends the
information to the server via clear
text parameters in a URL.

Correct! Riverside Enterprise's website
passes login authentication
information to the server as a
parameter in a URL, allowing an
attacker to perform an automated
credential stuffing attack using
usernames and passwords from a
recent data breach.

- wos
An attacker sends out phishing Educate Users

emails that include hyperlinks with
misleading hypertext claiming to
go to Riverside Enterprise's
website; instead, the link takes

Enhance Application-Level Sec ¥

<>

users to a malicious website that
only looks like the official Riverside
Enterprise website.

- :
An attacker discovers a password Update Server Configuration 4%

file on (the website) by including
the file name in the URL:
www .kirk.riverside.com/login/../aut

Other Incorrect Match Options:
e Apply HTML Tags
e Force FTP

Correct

Quiz Score: 9 out of 10

< Previous Next >

Submission Details:

Time: 10 minutes
Current Score: 9 out of 10

Kept Score: 9 out of 10