HW #2 Software Safety Requirements & Design Analysis 
Com S 4150/5150, Spring, 2025 
Due by 10 pm, Thursday, Feb. 27; turn in on Gradescope as a pdf 
Benjamin Smith, Jaret Van Zee, Gurumanie Singh Dhiman, Jonathan Tan 
 
Re-read the Homework Policy at the top of Homework 1, and make sure that you understand it 
before beginning this assignment. 
 
Reading assignment: 
- 7.3 in textbook 
- Chapter 15 of Leveson, Safeware: System Safety and Computers (posted below Lecture 5) 
- For Problem 1: Howard and Anderson slides (posted on Canvas) 
- For Problem 2: Appendix D (posted on Canvas) of Safeware 
 
 
1. Checking Requirements Completeness (50 pts.) Read Chap. 15, posted on Canvas. 
Consider the specification of the system described in the Electroshear presentation by Howard 
and Anderson, 2002 (posted on Canvas). For each requirement completeness problem they find 
in the Electroshear (e.g., those described on slides 13, 16, 19, 22, 24, 26, 28), state the “rule” in 
Chap. 15 that it violates, and briefly justify your answer. (By “rule”, I mean the italicized 
statements prefixed in Chap. 15 by a ☐.) 
 
Black is used for the main answer, other colors are additional inputs on the same data and may 
not be the perfect answer. 
●​
 
○​ Rule:  
■​ The behavior of the state machine should be deterministic (only one 
possible transition out of a state is applicable at any time) 
■​ Spontaneous receipt of a nonspontaneous input must be detected and 
responded to as an abnormal condition 
■​ Automatic update and deletion requirements for information in the 
human-computer interface must be specified.

■​ Every state must have a behavior (transition) defined for every possible 
input (15.4.4.1) 
○​ Justification: 
■​ The rule defines nondeterminism as a case where a condition can cause 
the transition into 2 different states. This is displayed most accurately in 
the slide above because, in our case, the standby signal was high 
(meaning set to standby state) + entry gate was closed (meaning set to 
loaded state). This could have been avoided if both of those conditions 
were disjoint to ensure that 2 transition conditions can never be true at the 
same time. 
■​ Skipped loading mode and went straight to loaded 
■​ Even if the designers were unable to anticipate that entrance gates could 
close during standby mode, there must still be some form of check 
conducted for the weight plate that was disconnected. This violates the 
rule that states that automatic update and deletion requirements for 
information must be specified because even though the entrance gate 
closing caused the pen to move into loaded mode, there should have 
been subsequent checks to ensure that all other inputs were in a normal 
condition before leaving the standby mode. The rule further elaborates on 
this by stating that events placed in queues may be negated by 
subsequent events and that the requirements should specify the condition 
under which this can occur. Since in this case the subsequent event was 
the gate closing, the requirements need to state specifically why/when the 
standby mode will move to loaded mode even though the weight plate is 
disconnected. 
■​ Gate close + standby mode is not properly defined in the system, causing 
the system to change to an unexpected state.

●​
 
○​ Rule:  
■​ All inputs used in specifying output events must be properly limited in the 
time they can be used (data age). Output commands that may not be able 
to be executed immediately must be limited in the time they are valid. 
■​ All information from the sensors should be used somewhere in the 
specification  
○​ Justification: 
■​ The software used obsolete data (data from when the weight plate was 
still active) and used it for an output command. The obsolete data needs 
to be flagged and discarded after a validity time that needs to be set in the 
requirements.  
■​ The entrance gate closing during standby mode moved the pen into 
loaded mode but did not consider the exit gate, or the weight plate as 
inputs before doing so. Since the weight plate was disconnected and the 
exit gate was open, if they were also used as inputs to determine the 
state change from standby to load, the incident would not have taken 
place.

●​
 
○​ Rule: 
■​ The internal software model of the process must be updated to reflect the 
actual process state at internal startup and after temporary shutdown 
(15.4.2) 
■​ The behaviour of the software with respect to inputs received before 
startup, after shutdown, or when the computer is temporarily 
disconnected from the process (off-line) must be specified, or it must be 
determined that this information can be safely ignored, and this 
conclusion must be documented.  
■​ The logical OR of the conditions on every transition out of any state must 
form a tautology. 
○​ Justification: 
■​ The rule states that it is important to consider that the process continues 
to change state even when the computer is not executing. In the slide 
above, the internal software model was not made aware/updated to 
reflect the actual process after standby mode (exit gate position sensors 
were ignored) and the system exited standby mode with an incorrect 
system model. In summary, after the unexpected state change from 
standby, the system failed to recognize that the exit gate was open. 
■​ In the above case, exit gate position sensors were ignored, which violates 
the above rule that states that the behavior of the software needs to be 
specified, or it must be determined that the information can be safely 
ignored. The exit door being open is not an input that can be safely 
ignored and furthermore, the weight plate was also disconnected, which is 
another input that was ignored. Both of these, in conjunction, cannot 
possibly justify that the information can be ignored safely. 
■​ In this case, because the exit gate position sensors were ignored, but the 
system entered sheer mode, it shows that the logical OR of the conditions 
on the transition out of standby mode didn’t form a tautology.

○​ Rule: 
■​ All information from the sensors should be used somewhere in the 
specification  
■​ The behaviour of the software with respect to inputs received before 
startup, after shutdown, or when the computer is temporarily 
disconnected from the process (off-line) must be specified, or it must be 
determined that this information can be safely ignored, and this 
conclusion must be documented.  
○​ Justification: 
■​ The rule states that if an input can be sent to the computer, there should 
be some specification of what should be done with it. In the above slide, 
the wool sensor did not detect wool but its input was not taken into 
consideration and the process continued anyway. 
■​ The wool sensor did not detect wool being sheared, but the process 
continued because the software chose to ignore the sensor. The sensor is 
there for a specific reason, if the software chooses to ignore the sensor, it 
must ensure that it can be ignored safely and documented. The rule 
mentioned above was not conformed with in this case because the 
software had access to the data from the wool sensor, yet chose to ignore 
this information without confirmation that it was safe.

●​
 
○​ Rule: 
■​ For the largest interval in which both input and output loads are assumed 
and specified, the absorption rate of the output environment must equal or 
exceed the input arrival rate. 
■​ Safety-critical outputs should be checked for reasonableness and for 
hazardous values and timing. (15.4.5) 
■​ Incomplete hazardous action sequences (transactions) should have a 
finite time specified after which the software should be required to cancel 
the sequence automatically and inform the operator. (15.4.5) 
■​ Basic feedback loops, as defined by the process control function, must be 
included in the software requirements. That is, there should be an input 
that requirements must include appropriate checks on these inputs in 
order to detect internal or external failures or errors. (15.4.6) 
○​ Justification: 
■​ As specified in the rule above, the environmental capacity problem 
allowed the actuators to be overwhelmed with data on the command bus 
and damage themselves. 
■​ As mentioned in the slide above, the shearing arm sensor does not 
handle struggling humans well, which indicates that the values must have 
been erratic and highly inconsistent, yet the software did not flag this as 
unreasonable or hazardous. This violates the rule above because it 
clearly indicates that even though the data bus was flooded with 
commands and inconsistent values, the software did not check for 
reasonableness. 
■​ As mentioned above in the last rule, there must be a finite time specified, 
after which the software should be required to cancel the sequence 
automatically and inform the operator. This was not the case in the slide 
above because the data bus was flooded with all sorts of commands and 
telemetry in a short period of time, yet the software took no action to 
inform the operator or cancel the sequence. This violates the rule

because it indicates that there is a flaw in the software that is unable to 
comprehend that all the information flooding the data bus is incorrect and 
erratic and to take countermeasures. 
■​ If the shearing arms had basic feedback loops, it would have detected 
that the shearing arm’s fine-adjustment sensors were detecting irregular 
shearing patterns. 
●​
 
○​ Rule: 
■​ Basic feedback loops, as defined by the process control function, must be 
included in the software requirements. That is, there should be an input 
that the software can use to detect the effect of any output on the 
process. The requirements must include appropriate checks on these 
inputs in order to detect internal or external failures or errors. (15.4.6) 
■​ Multiple paths should be provided for state changes that maintain or 
enhance safety. Multiple inputs or triggers should be required for paths 
from safe to hazardous states. 
■​ The response to excessive inputs (violations of load assumptions) must 
be specified 
■​ Soft and hard failure modes should be eliminated for all hazard-reducing 
outputs. Hazard-increasing outputs should have both soft and hard failure 
modes. 
■​ Transitions must satisfy software system safety requirements and 
constraints. 
■​ There must be a response specified for the arrival of an input in any state, 
including indeterminate states. (15.4.2) 
○​ Justification: 
■​ The output feedback problem kept the operators unaware that their stop 
command was being ignored. The operator's commands to stop the 
process had no special priority, and were susceptible to being dropped in 
the high traffic caused due to the telemetry and movement command 
problem.

■​ There should have been multiple inputs or triggers to get from the safe 
state (standby) to the loaded state, which ended up being hazardous, but 
there was only one (the entry gate closing) 
■​ There was no designated response to an overloaded bus of information. 
There should have been checks in place to make sure that if a stop 
command was entered, no matter how loaded the bus, it should be able 
to receive it or know it possibly couldn’t receive one in a reasonable 
amount of time. 
■​ The shearing state should have multiple logical ways to issue the 
commands needed to maintain the safety of the system so that a single 
hardware failure cannot prevent the operator from taking action to avoid a 
hazard. This was not the case in our situation, as the operator issued a 
command, but it did nothing, and there were no backup ways to get into a 
hard failure mode.  
■​ As mentioned on page 35, after the italicized point (Transitions must 
satisfy software system safety requirements and constraints), it states that 
every hazardous state must have a path to a safe state. Furthermore, it 
also states that if a safe state cannot be reached there from a hazardous 
state, all paths from that state must lead to a minimum risk state and that 
at least one such path should exist. In our case, there was one path that 
existed, but when the operator tried to issue a stop command, it did not 
work. This violates the above rule because there must be a way to reach 
a safe state from a hazardous state. 
■​ The slide shown above is an example of a missing response for the input 
“stop” in any state. Showing that the “stop” input doesn’t have the right 
priority and/or that there exists a state that has no appropriate response 
for the input. 
●​
 
○​ Rule: 
■​ Output commands should usually be reversible. (15.4.7)

■​ Every hazardous state must have a path to a safe state. All paths from 
the hazardous state must lead to a safe state. Time in the hazardous 
state must be minimized and contingency action may be necessary to 
reduce risks while in the hazardous state. 
■​ Safety-critical outputs should be checked for reasonableness and for 
hazardous values and timing. 
○​ Justification: 
■​ The rule clearly states that there needs to be a way to cancel/reverse an 
“ON” command using an “OFF” command from the state in which the 
“ON” command was issued. In our case, since there was an emergency, 
the command sent by the operator was not reversible (opening the gate), 
which kept the operators from being able to provide an escape route 
during the accident. 
■​ Again, this shows that incorrect “stop” command priority and/or that there 
exists a state that has no appropriate response for it, let to the 
irreversibility of the shear command. 
■​ A shutdown command was given, the operator tried commanding the gate 
to open, and there were hazardous values from within the machine while 
the person was still inside. All of these should have been considered. 
Even though keeping the gates closed is a safety feature, there must be a 
check for reasonableness when there are so many flags being received at 
once. At least one of the above should have put the machine in a safe 
state due to the number of hazardous values and the fact that these 
commands were all given one after another in a short period of time. 
 
2. Safety Requirements for information in the human-computer interface (50 pts.) In Leveson’s 
Safeware, read Appendix D.3., pp. 619-639. Leveson quotes Hoagland: “The fact that a system 
or process is being controlled automatically does not mean that the pilot’s information needs are 
any different than if being controlled manually.” That holds for the operator’s information, too. 
 
In the Three Mile Island accident, 
(a) Describe what specific information was not available to the operators that they needed. 
●​ Temperatures from the reactor coolant drain tank, while temperature information was 
presented, it was often deemed to be inaccurate due to known issues of leakage from 
PORV or another valve 
●​ The twelve-valves were not open when they were supposed to be  
●​ The origin of the water coming into the containment building sump 
●​ Steam and water were getting pumped through the pipes, the operators were not aware 
that the water was getting boiled into steam. 
●​ The direct source of the hydrogen explosion from building pressure in the tank. 
●​ The control room alarms did not provide potential reasons as to why the alarms were 
going off 
●​ Water pressure information in the core was not provided to the operators

●​ Operators were unable to receive updated information at different times due to the 
computers running behind occurring events. 
●​ Operators were not aware of the poor maintenance of the pressurizer level transmitter, 
hydrogen recombine, pressurizer heaters, makeup pump switches, and condensate 
polishers 
●​ The operators did not have information on the condition of the iodine filters, which would 
prevent radioactive contamination from leaking into the air 
●​ Priority of alarms, the operator can’t filter lower priority alarms, causing them to have to 
face more than 100 alarms in a short period of time. 
●​ No direct indication of coolant water turning into steam. 
●​ Operators were not able to see alarms that were poorly placed 
 
(b) What false assumptions did the operators make, due in part to this missing information, that 
contributed to the accident? 
●​ Assumption of accurate instrumentation: The operators trusted the control room 
indicators. Turns out the indicators misrepresented key parameters like the coolant level 
and the state of the relief valve. 
●​ Assumption of sufficient coolant: Due to the indicators’ misrepresentation of the coolant 
level, the operator overlooked that the coolant was escaping. 
●​ Assumption that the incident is contained and isolated: The operators didn’t expect that 
the failure of the relief valve could cascade down and lead to issues in other systems 
affecting the coolant levels and the system’s cooling. 
●​ Assumption that the high temperature of the drain pipe represented residual heat. This 
should have been an indication to the operators that there was an open PORV and a 
loss of coolant. 
●​ The assumption that the hydrogen explosion was the sound of the lid slamming shut.