HW #3 Verifying & Validating 
Safety-Critical Systems 
Com S 4150/5150, Spring, 2025 
Due April 3; turn in on Gradescope as a pdf 
Participants: Benjamin Smith, Jonathan Tan, Gurumanie Singh Dhiman, Jaret Van Zee 
 
Re-read the Homework Policy provided in Homework 1, and make sure that you understand it 
before beginning this homework. 
 
1. Static analysis of safety-critical software. (30 pts.) Gerard Holzmann recommended that Static 
Code Analysis tools be used in the development of safety-critical code (“The Power of 10, Rules 
for Developing Safety-Critical Code”). In an article in CACM, “Mars Code,” Holzmann describes 
the intertwined roles that (1) static code analysis, (2) code review, and (3) model checking had 
in making the software on the Mars Science Laboratory spacecraft & its rover, Curiosity, highly 
reliable and in reducing project risk. 
document 
a) How were the results from static code analysis tools used to assist with code peer review? 
●​ Their redefined code review process allowed them to thoroughly scrub large amounts of 
code efficiently.  
●​ Usually, code peer review is done with an expert, a few hundred lines of code at a time, 
to avoid burnout and reviewer/system strain. Static analyzers don't tire and patiently 
report all violations.  
●​ They used four analyzers at once. 
●​ The output of the four tools was uniformly reformatted so that all the reports could be 
seen in the scrub. 
●​ Scrub also took human-generated peer code review comments as input. 
●​ Then, the module owner looks over the human and static-generated reports and decides 
what to do. 
●​ Overall, it streamlined the process considerably. 
b) What parts of the code were model checked with SPIN? Why were these parts selected for 
model checking? 
●​ Key parts of the control software used for verification. 
●​ Target verification of distributed systems software with asynchronous threads of 
execution. 
●​ Spin tries to find system executions that violate user-defined requirements. 
●​ Used on critical software components including a dual-CPU boot control algo, nonvolatile 
flash file system, and the data management subsystem. 
●​ These parts were selected because they were hard to test otherwise because it was 
unreasonably difficult to prove concurrent algorithms to be correct under all execution 
scenarios, and to reduce the risk of inflight surprises. 
c) How was software redundancy used to reduce missions’ risk (pp. 9-10)? 
●​ Assertions in the code used as a protection mechanism were based on redundancy.  
●​ Assertion validation like this is almost always redundant but sometimes does help with 
near-impossible events.

●​ Redundancy was also used to protect the critical landing sequence. The main CPU and 
the backup were used simultaneously, running not the same thing but two different 
versions of the entry-descent-and-landing code. 
 
 
2. Testing “untestable” safety-critical software. (30 pts.) John Knight et al. describe testing a 
safety-critical software system for brain surgery (developed in collaboration with Iowa 
researchers) that had been described as untestable. Knight et al.’s short paper is posted on 
Canvas. 
Document 
 
(a) What were the issues that challenged the testing of the system? 
1.​ The system uses a distributed architecture and depends on custom software. 
2.​ It is not feasible to power down the system on a routine or extended basis for testing. 
3.​ The system requires input from a physician. 
4.​ Correct operation of the system is very difficult to determine because complex 
calculations are required to perform the necessary control. 
5.​ Vast number of possible test cases possible when testing the system. 
 
(b) Describe how the authors’ testing approach addressed each of these issues. 
1.​ Reversal Checks, testing starting at the output and working backward to the input, were 
used to test existing software already in the system. 
2.​ The team developed several synthetic devices to emulate the actual devices (e.g., X-ray 
and other high-energy electrical devices) to address any accessibility issues to the actual 
devices. A test harness was used to produce results and images from the X-ray. 
3.​ A pseudo-user was created as a physician to give the necessary inputs into the software 
interface when information/commands are sent from the test harness. 
4.​ The team implemented reversal checks to address issues of determining correctness in 
the outputs. Reversal Checks are performed by working backward from the output and 
computing what the theoretical input should have been. Then, check to see if the 
theoretical input matches the actual input. 
5.​ To limit test cases, the research team employed a specification limitation technique in the 
overall test plan. They did this by purposefully limiting the specifications in several areas 
of the overall system.  
 
3. Beyond safety: application to other high-dependability systems. (40 pts.) The Risks digest 
logs incidents that are risks to the public in computers and related systems. Note that the digest 
has search features. Within the incidents reported in 2023 and 2024, find two incidents, both of 
which you find interesting and both of which involve accidents or near-accidents that might 
have been avoided by the use of Leveson’s approach to building safety-critical systems (i.e., 
anything we’ve covered in lectures). The incidents can involve safety or other dependability 
properties, including security, privacy, or reliability. 
 
(a) Provide a description of each of the two incidents.

(b) For each, discuss how using Leveson’s approach might have prevented the incident or its 
recurrence or might have mitigated its effects. This question aims to show how specific 
design-for- safety mechanisms can reduce risk in real-world applications. 
 
 
Incident 1: Woman Died Trapped in Burning SUV After Vehicle Malfunction (2023). On 
December 9, 2023, 73-year-old Mary L. Frahm died inside her 2009 Dodge Journey after it 
caught fire on the side of a Wisconsin road. She was trapped inside the vehicle, unable to 
unlock the doors or open the windows. Just before the fire, she had called her fiancé and said 
her car was “acting up” and she couldn’t get out. Various systems malfunctioned: the 
speedometer was erratic, and windows and doors were unresponsive. Investigators found a 
failure in the Totally Integrated Power Module (TIPM), a central unit responsible for controlling 
most of the vehicle’s electrical systems. The TIPM in her model had a known history of electrical 
issues, including short circuits and spontaneous system failures. [1, 2] 
 
Leveson discussion: The TIPM design created a single point of failure that could 
simultaneously turn off multiple safety systems, violating Leveson’s framework. A single failure 
in the electrical system cascaded across numerous other systems, like the door and window 
locks. Leading to the woman’s death. Moreover, the lack of mechanical overwrite to the system 
violates Leveson’s safety requirements. It shows that the design did not prioritize fail-safe 
behavior, violating fundamental system safety principles. 
 
 
Incident 2: In August 2023, Microsoft faced criticism for reportedly violating its security policies 
(by not storing its security keys within Hardware Security Modules) in a way that allowed 
adversaries, believed to be the Chinese government, to use an expired key to gain access to 
email accounts of U.S. government agencies. This incident raised severe concerns about the 
security practices of Microsoft because, in addition to the inappropriateness of the expired key, 
Microsoft told its customers that it had inappropriately allowed the expired vital to remain in the 
consumer's account for months, exposing concerns about Microsoft's security protocols 
regarding sensitive government email accounts. [1, 2] 
 
Leveson's Discussion: Leveson's approach to software system safety mentions, “all inputs 
used in specifying output events must be properly limited in the time they can be used (data 
age)’’. Output commands that may not be able to be executed immediately must be limited in 
the time they are valid." This indicates that in the incident above, if Microsoft had kept their keys 
in a Hardware Security Module, or better yet, if they had ensured that their expired keys were 
revoked access from the system, all of this could have been prevented. This situation 
demonstrates that Leveson and her Data Age Criterion were violated and should have been 
obsolete and discarded appropriately.