CPR E 4890 Final Lab Experiment (Optional) 
Cellular Network Emulation and Throughput Testing in ARA Wireless Living Lab 
(Total Points: 100) 
 
Introduction 
 
• 
This lab is optional, and you will earn bonus points upon completion. 
• 
You may complete this lab at any time before the due date at your convenience. There is no need to come 
to Room 2061 Coover to work on the lab, and attendance will not be taken. 
• 
After completing the lab, fill out the enclosed lab report by answering all questions and submit it on Canvas. 
 
Before starting the lab, familiarize yourself with the basics of 4G/5G network infrastructure by visiting A Beginners 
Guide to Mobil Communication Infrastructure and reading the sections regarding 4G/5G networks. To understand 
the platform that you will be using read about the ARA sandbox ARA Sandbox Service. The primary hardware used 
for this lab will be USRP B210 Software Defined Radios (SDRs). For those new to SDRs, additional resources on SDR 
fundamentals can be found at Fundamentals of SDRs. 
 
 
 
In this lab we will use container images that contains srsRAN, an open-source software suite for 4G LTE mobile 
communication. srsRAN provides a complete 4G LTE software radio stack, including the Evolved Packet Core (EPC), 
eNodeB (eNB), and User Equipment (UE) components, allowing for the simulation and testing of 4G LTE networks. 
srsRAN is widely used in both academic and industry research for developing and experimenting with 4G and 5G 
technologies. More information about srsRAN can be found at srsRAN Documentation. 
 
Lab Expectations: 
1) Get familiar with the ARA Wireless Living Lab. 
2) Successfully set up an emulated 4G network and simulate wireless data traffic between the UE and eNB.  
3) Conduct a throughput test on the emulated network and analyze performance. 
 
Learning Objectives: 
1) Gain an understanding of the key components of a 4G network and their responsibilities. 
2) Gain an understanding of communication mechanisms in cellular networks between User Equipment (UE) 
and Base Station (eNB), to then further explore potential security vulnerabilities. 
3) Define metrics that can affect the throughput of a network. 
 
Estimated Time to Complete the Lab: 1-1.5 hours

2 
 
Procedure 
 
0. Lab Preparation 
 
This lab must be completed in a single sitting because the containers don’t save data once deleted. ARA provisions 
resources using Docker containers. Containers are ephemeral, meaning that once deleted, all data inside them is 
permanently lost unless copied externally. The lease by default is reserved for 2 hours but can be manually 
increased to a maximum of 5 hours.  
 
0.1. Using your school credentials, log in at ARA log-in portal. 
 
0.2. Search for “Iowa State University” in the search bar and press continue to be redirected to SSO.

3 
 
0.3. After you have successfully logged in, you will be navigated to the CPRE4890_S26 project page on the 
ARA wireless portal. 
 
0.4. To sign up for ARA’s jumpbox to SSH into the VMs, click on your username (ISU email address) at the 
right of the project page, and select Upload Public Key. Follow the instructions on the screen, after which 
you can follow the instructions in the lab manual below to SSH into the VM. Please do this as soon as 
possible as it may take the ARA team some time to process this. For more information on ARA’s Jumpbox 
service you can visit ARA Jumpbox Service. 
 
 
 
0.5. Make sure to set your time-zone settings correctly. This can significantly impact your experience with the 
reservation system and help you avoid issues caused by differences between the ARA Platform time 
settings and your system time.

4 
 
1. Reserve two sandbox hosts. 
 
Go to ARA Sandbox Service and pick two machines. Figure 1 shows the relative positions of the machines. Choose 
two machines that are in general proximity to one another, since nearby hosts are more likely to have reliable RF 
connectivity. 
 
Make sure to check the ARA Sandbox Service page for which Sandbox-Host pairs have connectivity. Not all host 
pairs have reliable RF coverage due to physical layout and interference. If srsue remains at "Attaching UE..." for 
more than ~30 seconds, the hosts are likely out of range; terminate the lease and try a different pair. 
 
 
Figure 1 Sandbox-host physical locations.

5 
 
Figure 2 is the snapshot from a single sweep test run with the eNB on Sandbox-Host-005: UE hosts 003, 014, 015, 
017, 022, and 025 attached and passed iperf, while UE hosts 007, 016, 018, 019, 021, 026, and 027 did not see the 
cell at all.  RF coverage shifts over time as hardware may be moved, antennas may be adjusted, and interference 
may change; therefore, your own pairing may differ. You may need to try a few different host pairs before finding 
one that works.  
 
Figure 2 Snapshot from a single test run with the eNB on Sandbox-Host-005 (Completed on 04/21/2026). 
Figure 3 shows the throughput measurements between different eNB-UE pairs in a recent test run. It may serve as 
a guideline to help you choose the right eNB-UE pair for your test. You may want to avoid the pairs with no Link 
Quality value, meaning that the link was empirically infeasible. Each column represents a Host chosen as eNB node 
starting from 003 all the way up to 025; each row represents those same hosts as UE node, and the values 
represent the Link Quality value. For example, if you choose Host 017 as eNB node, your best shot for UE would be 
Host 018, and your worst shot would be Host 025.  
 
Figure 3 Illustrative LTE throughput per UE host and eNB (Measured on 04/23/2026).

6 
 
1.1. On the ARA portal, navigate to Reservations → Leases → Host Calendar  
(Or simply visit: https://portal.arawireless.org/project/leases/calendar/host/) 
 
 
 
 
1.2. Ensure the hosts you choose are free to reserve. The image below shows Sandbox-Host-006 and 009 are 
available. Sandbox-Host 003 is currently reserved see reservation details by hovering your mouse over 
the colored block. 
 
Note: You may have to scroll down until you reach the Sandbox-Host-0xx hosts. 
 
 
 
1.3. Create the first lease by clicking create lease next to host calendar.

7 
 
1.4. You can choose a lease name. However, using eNBLease as the lease name is recommended to make 
things less confusing moving forward. The start and end date can be left blank for a default reservation 
of 2 hours, which should be sufficient. If you feel like you would need additional time, you can enter in 
your start and end date, to request for a maximum of 5 hours of resource allocation. Make sure your 
time zone is set correctly.  
 
Note: Lease names must be unique across the ARA portal. If you receive a duplicate name error, append 
your NetID. 
 
  
 
 
1.5. Use the Site dropdown menu and select Sandbox. Use the trailing numbers from Sandbox-Host-xxx for 
the device ID. For example, Sandbox-Host-006 is selected in the figure below.

8 
 
1.6. Leave the wireless section of the lease blank and click create lease. 
 
 
 
 
 
1.7. If done correctly with an available host the following messages will appear at the top right of the screen.

9 
 
1.8. Do the same for the second lease using your other available host. Using the lease name UELease is 
recommended to avoid confusion later. Sandbox-Host-009 is used in the example below.

10 
 
1.9. Provide a screenshot of both successfully created hosts’ lease details in your lab report. To see lease 
details click on the blue lease name.  
 
 
 
 
Ensure both leases are in ACTIVE state before creating containers. If the lease is PENDING, wait or refresh 
until it becomes ACTIVE.  Also please note that the leases will come ACTIVE only when they are within the 
time window you have defined for them. Before that time, they will remain PENDING . 
 
2. Create two containers.  
2.1. Navigate to Container → Containers → Create Container.

11 
 
2.2. For the first container, choose a name. It is recommended to use “eNBContainer” for the name to avoid 
confusion. Use the docker image arawirelesshub/srsran:srsenb 
 
 
 
2.3. Fill in the Spec tab with the following specs.  
• 
Hostname: eNB (recommended, but you can choose) 
• 
CPU: 6  
• 
Memory: 8192  
• 
Lease Name: eNBLease (or the name you chose for the first lease).

12 
 
2.4. Click the up arrow for ARA_Shared_Net in Networks tab, making sure that it moves to the Allocated 
section, then click create. ARA_Shared_Net connects the containers to the shared virtual network, 
allowing communication between the eNB and UE containers and enabling Internet access via the 
physical network.

13 
 
2.5. If done correctly, a message saying successfully created will appear at the top right. It might take a few 
seconds for the container to get up and running so while waiting, create the second container. 
 
 
2.6. For the second container, it is recommended to use the name “UEContainer” and use the image 
arawirelesshub/srsran:srsue_4g. For the Spec tab, use all the same specs except Hostname: UE and 
Lease Name: UELease.

14 
 
 
 
 
2.7. Provide screenshots of both successfully created containers’ overview tabs. Go to the container overview 
by clicking on the blue container name.

15 
 
3. Connect to containers using jumpbox. 
3.1. Select the eNBContainer and go to the Console tab.

16 
 
3.2. Run the command passwd using a password you won’t forget “root” is recommended, then start the ssh 
service using the following command: service ssh start 
 
 
 
 
3.3. Do this for the UEContainer as well.  
 
 
 
 
3.4. Open two terminals or command prompt windows and ssh into ARA’s jumpbox 
username@jbox.arawireless.org. Make sure that the RSA private key you used to sign up for ARA’s 
jumpbox is in the .ssh file on the machine you are using.  
 
Note: Your username can be found on the Upload Public Key page.

17 
 
 
Alternatively, make sure that your private key is in the directory you are currently in, and you can 
run the command ‘ssh -i private_key username@jbox.arawireless.org’. Additional information 
on ARA jumpbox can be found here. 
 
 
 
3.5. Go back to overview of eNBContainer, under specs a floating IP address is listed. This is the Ip address 
you will use to ssh from ARA’s jumpbox to the container using username root and the password you 
chose.  
 
Note: It may take a few seconds for the floating IP to appear. If you do not see a floating IP immediately, 
refresh the page.

18 
 
3.6. Open two additional eNB terminals, and 3 UE terminals as well.

19 
 
4. Starting the EPC and eNB 
4.1. In the terminal assigned to the eNBContainer run the command srsepc to start the EPC and then in the 
2nd eNBContainer terminal run the command srsenb.  
 
The Evolved Packet Core (EPC) is a key component of the 4G LTE network architecture, 
responsible for control functions such as user authentication, session management, and resource 
allocation.  
 
Observe the startup messages and answer: 
1. What three main components are initialized? (Hint: HSS, MME, and ___) 
2. What MCC and MNC values do you see? 
3. What does "SPGW" stand for and what is its role? 
Leave this running - you'll see more messages when other components connect. 
 
The ‘srsenb’ command starts the eNB service, that is the hardware component of the LTE 
network used for direct communication with mobile devices, managing radio communications, 
and connecting to the EPC. Once the eNB service is initiated, it will start broadcasting and 
connecting to User Equipment(UE).  
 
Observe the startup messages, and comment on what you see.  
  
5. Starting the UE 
5.1. In one of the terminals for UEContainer run the command srsue 
Watch the connection process and note: 
1. Cell found - What's the PCI and PRB count? 
2. PLMN found - Does it match the network configured in EPC? 
3. Random Access - What's your C-RNTI? 
4. Final message - What IP address was assigned? 
 
Observe Network Attachment 
Look at Terminal 1 (EPC) - you'll see the authentication process: 
Find and record: 
• 
IMSI number: ___________ 
• 
Allocated IP: ___________ 
• 
Bearer QCI: ___________ (Quality Class Identifier) 
Look at Terminal 2 (eNB) - you should see: 
• 
"RACH:" message with preamble number 
• 
"User 0x46 connected"  
 
5.2. In the other terminal for UEContainer run the command ping 172.16.0.1. This will check whether you are 
connected to the core. Provide a screenshot of your successful ping in the lab report.

20 
 
6. Running the throughput test 
6.1. In the terminals that are running srsenb and srsue type t and hit enter to start the console trace. 
6.2. In the unused terminal for eNBContainer run the command  
iperf -s -u -i 1 
 
6.3. In the terminal for UEContainer used to run the ping command run the command  
iperf -c 172.16.0.1 -u -i 1 -b 25M -t 10  
 
6.4. Provide a screenshot of both console traces in your lab report. Typing t and hitting enter will stop the 
console trace. Type t and hit enter again to start it again. 
 
6.5. In the lab report, define the options for iperf used for the UEContainer and define the brate seen in both 
console traces. 
6.6. Run the command  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
iperf -c 172.16.0.1 -u -i 1 -b 25M -t 10  
 
but change the value for the -b flag to make a noticeable difference in the brate. Try atleast 3 different 
values. Provide a screenshot of the console traces and the value for -b that was used. At what point does 
the requested bandwidth exceed the achievable throughput? What indicates saturation? 
 
6.7. In the same terminals, now test TCP performance. First, stop the UDP iperf server (Ctrl+C in eNB 
terminal). In eNB terminal, start TCP server: 
 
iperf -s 
 
In UE terminal, run TCP test: 
iperf -c 172.16.0.1 -t 10 -i 1 
  
Document the TCP throughput and compare with your UDP results. Why might they differ? 
 
6.8. Test uplink and downlink simultaneously. In eNB terminal (restart UDP server): 
 
iperf -s -u 
 
In UE terminal: 
iperf -c 172.16.0.1 -u -b 20M -d -t 10 -i 1 
 
 Screenshot both directions' throughput. How does simultaneous traffic affect performance? Is the total 
bidirectional throughput equal to the sum of unidirectional tests? Explain.

21 
 
7. Create a new UE 
https://arawireless.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ara_technical_manual/sandbox_service.html 
7.1. To see the effects that the distance between the UE and eNB can have on throughput, find another 
Sandbox-Host that is further or closer to the eNB. Delete the lease for the current UE, make a new one, 
and rerun the experiment. The figure above illustrates the location of the Sandbox-Host machine to aid 
you with your decision to pick a UE further from or closer to your current one. 
 
7.2. Describe the changes you observed in your lab report and provide screenshots to support your claims 
based on change in throughput and so on. Specifically, comment on the link quality based on metrics 
such as RSRP, RSRQ, SNR, CFO and so on. 
 
 
8. Deleting Leases 
8.1. Navigate to Reservations → Leases and use the box next to Lease name to select both leases, then click 
Delete Leases.  
 
 
 
8.2. Provide a screenshot of the empty Leases page in your lab report.